# belly-button-challenge
## Overview
Building an Interactive Dashboard using Javascript to better visual the microbiomes in human navals. 

I used several functions to successfully build the interactive dashboard. The first function builds the metadata. It first fetches the JSON data, then filters it. It then selects which panel to display it on, then clears it out for the selected. Lastly it'll append all the filtered metadata.

After that, the function called "BuildCharts" will fetch and extract some sample data til its otu_ids, otu_labels, and sample_values are available to use. A bubbleTrace object is created to define the data for the Bubble Chart. This includes otu_ids for the x-axis, sample_values for the y-axis, and otu_labels for hover text. The marker property controls the size and color of the bubbles. The bubbleLayout object defines the layout of the chart, including titles and axis labels. The chart is rendered with Plotly. To prepare the data for the charts, the yticks array is generated by mapping the top 10 otu_ids to a list of strings, and the list is reversed to match the typical horizontal bar chart order. The top 10 sample_values and otu_labels are also sliced and reversed. Lastly, building the Bar chart, a barTrace object is created for the Bar Chart, using the prepared data for x, y, and text. The chart type is specified as "bar", and the orientation is set to horizontal ("h"). The barLayout object defines the layout of the Bar Chart, including titles and margins. The chart is rendered with Plotly.

The "inti()" function will initialize the page by populating the dropdown menu with sample names, and then use the first sample to build the charts and metadata panel. As per usual, we fetch and extract the sample names. Then we make a dropdown menu by "d3.select("#selDataset")". We then populate the menu by creating a loop that iterates over and add each name in the sampleNames array to the menu. We initialize the charts and metadata by selecting and storing the first sample name in the firstSample variable. The buildCharts(firstSample) and buildMetadata(firstSample) functions are called with the firstSample to create the initial view of the charts and metadata panel.

Finally, the "optionChanged" function is designed to be triggered whenever a new sample is selected from the dropdown menu. The "newSample" parameter represents the ID of the newly selected sample. When the function is called, it will execute the "buildCharts(newSample)" and "buildMetadata(newSample") functions with the "newSample" as the argument. This will update the charts and metadata panel with data corresponding to the newly selected sample.

### Dataset
Given by EdX in samples.json
